# Abstract
App name: Active Mines and Mineral Deposits
	There are roughly 15,000 active mines, quarries, and other mineral operations in the United States (US) as of 2015. These operations account for over four hundred billion dollars of the US’ GPD. The western United States accounts for the highest value of metals produced in 2022 with $27 billion, with the Midwest coming in a distant 2nd with $9 billion. The United States leads the world in production of beryllium, an important mineral in the aerospace and defense industries. With the United States being such an important player in the global mining industry, one may wonder the exact location of these mines and deposits. The proposed app plans to achieve this goal by containing the locations of active mines in the United States, locations of mineral deposits, and government land. Users will be able to toggle on and off the given layers. Users will be able to add, remove, and update features for the mining feature class as its last public release from the USGS was in 2003 and only contains roughly 8,000 locations, with not operations from 2003 even being present in the database. A community driven approach is taken to updating the location of mines in the United States. Users will be able to query the data as well, being able to query the operations by type (building materials, metals, and industrial minerals), as well as being able to query the mineral deposit database by type as well (cobalt, gallium, lithium, et cetera). Government lands are built to balance three main components, recreation, conservation, and economic interest. As such, many government lands, especially in the western United States have mining operations inside their borders, and more so have surveyed their lands and know what potential economically important resources are inside. Users will be able to change the basemap too. A legend will also be present for users to interpret the meaning of symbols.
# Systems Used
- Esri js
- AWS
- Node.js
- Express